I used the C/C++ programming language in courses to understand low level system concepts like processes and threads. I was introduced to the consumer producer design pattern where I implemented mutually exclusive locks on shared resources to ensure safe thread synchronization.  In similar classes we translated simple programs from C to assembly and vice versa. 
With Java i was taught data structures. Learning fundamental algorithms like merge sort and depth first search. I learned how to analyze algorithms and how the space-time tradeoff when considering performance. Java was used in my design patterns class where I was introduced how to make a code base's functionality grow without unneeded complexities. 
In my '[Programming] Language Concepts' we use Scheme and Scala to learned ideas that are implemented in all languages like scope, types, and expressions. 
Python was used in my spatial data science course. I used open source geo-spatial libraries to scrape, clean, analyze and visualize US census data. Also with python I learned socket programming in distributed systems class where I built a terminal based messenger app they can send files. 
In my free time, I took it upon myself to explore shell scripting where I became familiar with bash and zsh. I did a small project in zsh that retrieves a website's HTML and parses is it for specific data with regular expressions. Also, I learned the Dart the language using the flutter framework to created a simple portfolio website hosted for free on Github. 